Recently, quite a few exciting gaming laptops launched that have managed to grab the eyeballs of gamers. PC gaming has seen a resurgence, with console gaming taking a backseat. And this has been the cue for PC manufacturers to bring high-quality gaming systems back into the fray.
HP recently introduced its 'Omen' line-up of gaming desktops, laptops and peripherals, officially making its foray into the segment. The company sent us its top-of-the-line Omen 17 laptop, in addition to a gaming kit. The kit comprises of the Omen Headset, Omen Mouse and Omen Mousepad, all made by SteelSeries. And even though the review is primarily centered around the laptop, I also got the chance to see how well the accessories add up to the whole experience.
New Delhi
HP's Omen series is quite flexible, with various configurations available to suit the needs of different gamers. I feel that this is part of the company's attempts to penetrate the PC gaming market better and bring competitive products to budget gamers, too.
I reviewed the US variant of the Omen 17, which is VR-ready and comes with an Nvidia GeForce GTX 1070 graphics card, Intel i7-6700HQ CPU and supports 4K Ultra HD native resolution, among other features. The laptop's India-specific counterpart was launched much later and comes with Intel's latest Kaby Lake CPU, but brings down the native resolution to Full HD.
So at a hefty price tag of Rs 1,69,990, is the Omen 17 what the gamer in you needs? Here's my review.

Design
At first, it seems evident that HP has tried to cut production costs. The laptop doesn't come with things like RGB keyboards and flashy designs. For a gaming laptop, it looks simple, with just the Omen tribal logo adorning the centre of the lid. The keyboard has Red backlighting and a low form factor, which is nothing out of the ordinary.

Once the disappointment about the less-than-fancy look gets over, you realize that it is not just a huge laptop, it's incredibly heavy too. Companies have been making their gaming laptops increasingly slimmer and lighter, with Razer's recently-launched Blade Pro being the most notable example. It seems that HP had other priorities with the Omen, which weighs almost 3.35kg. I took the Omen 17 (with the provided accessories) on a short outstation trip, and in addition to the excellent portable gaming performance, got a backache.
This is enough to conclude that the HP Omen 17 is not a portable gaming machine. Then again, most gaming systems are not meant to be lugged around, so I don't think it's a big drawback.
The Omen 17 has a rather springy keyboard which, though not mechanical, should be good enough for gamers used to smashing the keys. But, what I found disappointing is that in a laptop that measures 16.3-inch by 11-inch and is 1.3-inch thick, HP couldn't fit an optical drive (The company's website states that the same is included in newer models). I found it to be a poor management of space. I felt the keyboard could have been bigger. The trackpad too, isn't the best out there and is just average.
The Omen 17 comes with a plethora of connectivity ports including two USB 3.1, a USB 2.0, HDMI, Mini Display, Ethernet, 3.5mm audio and MIC ports. I'd say that it's more than enough for connecting majority of gaming peripherals and accessories.

Performance
As soon as we turned on the machine we fell in love with the display. With a maximum brightness of 300nits, 72% sRGB colour gamut, ultra wide viewing angles and 4K resolution, the Omen 17 has one of the better displays out there. There's a certain satisfaction in watching those headshots in a resolution high-enough to distinguish individual blood droplets. That said, Indian buyers will have to make do with the Full HD resolution. One of the problems of having a 4K display is that most software applications don't support it natively and end up their regular font sizes, which look tiny. So maybe a Full HD panel isn't a bad thing.
Moving on, it's time to talk about the innards of the Omen 17. The raw hardware specifications of the beastly gaming laptop are as powerful as you'd expect. As said before, it has an Intel i7-6700HQ CPU, Nvidia GeForce GTX1070 GPU with 8 gigs of graphics memory, 16GB DDR4 RAM, 256GB SSD and 1TB HDD.
With the above configuration, the Omen 17 can play pretty much any game that's available right now at max settings. And of course, you won't need to upgrade it for the next couple years. I did not have an HTC Vive headset to try out the laptop's VR capabilities, but HP claims the Omen 17 can do it easily. Even a VR version of Dota 2 showed up in my Steam library on this laptop, while reviewing.
We assessed the performance of the Omen 17 using 3DMark and PCMark 8, and it scored 3,857 and 3,661 respectively. This is standard performance, given the laptop's specifications. However, I'm certain that the India-specific version of the Omen 17 with Intel's seventh-gen Kaby Lake CPU would get better numbers, even more than those of Asus' ROG Strix GL553VD.
Asus STRIX ROG GL553VD laptop review: Game on!
I started testing the Omen 17 with titles such as Dark Souls 3, following that up with regular doses of Counter Strike: Global Offensive, Dota 2 and even Sniper Elite 4. During the entire time, I didn't see the laptop struggle one bit, even at 4K resolution and maxed-out settings.
The frame rate dropped a little under 60fps when playing Dark Souls 3 and Sniper Elite 4. Despite the frame rate being a bit on the lower side, the G-sync enabled display (a rarity even in gaming laptops) does a marvelous job of clearing any screen stuttering issues. However, beware gamers - the Nvidia GPU is a power hog and the laptop's performance drops significantly when not plugged in.
If you are a gamer who doesn't like headphones and prefers blasting the audio through the speakers, the Omen 17 will disappoint you. The cooling fans inside the laptop make a lot of noise. As the GPU starts getting utilized more, the noise from the fans increase too.
The Bang & Olufsen dual-speakers in the Omen 17 produce good quality sound, but aren't loud enough to overpower the noise from the fans.
HP Omen 17 houses a 6-cell 95.8Wh Li-ion battery that, even without heavy gaming, lasted barely 3.5 hours during my testing. When put through its paces, the battery ran out only after an hour of 4K gaming.
As for the OS, the Omen has all of Windows 10's standard features. Windows Hello facial authentication is also included, but it doesn't work properly all the time. On the other hand, the HP TrueVision Full HD webcam is excellent and the dual microphones are great for audio chats.

A word about the accessories that we were provided with: The Omen Mouse by SteelSeries is smooth and feels somewhat similar to the classic Kinzu V2, which I think is a good thing. And yes, it has RGB lighting. The mouse costs Rs 5,499.
The Omen Headset is essentially the classic SteelSeries Siberia v2, which has been the choice of majority of pro gamers for some time now It's priced at Rs 7,499. Priced at Rs 2,199, the Omen Mouse Pad by SteelSeries is the good old Qck Heavy that works fine with the mouse.

Do note that the mentioned accessories do not come bundled with the laptop, and must be purchased separately.
Verdict
The HP Omen 17 may not be the most eye-grabbing gaming laptop in its price segment, but it makes up for that with its performance. Though gamers in India won't get 4K gaming experience, they'll enjoy better processing performance with seventh-gen Intel CPU. And the fact that Omen 17 is priced competitively for its specs, makes it a nice choice. Other options that you might consider for this price include the Asus ROG Strix GL553VD and MSI GS63VR Stealth Pro.
